#summary This howto explains how to install and configure m2eclipse as a eclipse plug-in.
#labels Phase-Implementation,eclipse,m2eclipse,maven,integration

= Introduction =

m2eclipse provides comprehensive Maven integration for Eclipse. You can use m2eclipse to manage both simple and multi-module Maven projects, execute Maven builds via the Eclipse interface, and interact with Maven repositories. m2eclipse makes development easier by integrating data from a project’s Object Model with Eclipse IDE features. With m2eclipse, you can use Maven within Eclipse in a natural and intuitive interface.

http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/


= Steps =

The course is divided in three main steps. Note that some paths has strings like _x.x.x`_`xx_ which should be replaced for a valid version number.

== Configure installed JRE in Eclipse ==

  # Open Eclipse.
  # Go to _Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Installed JREs_
  # Now, we are going to add a new JRE definition. Click _Add... -> Standard VM_
  # Search for the JRE home. This path should actually point to the JDK directory. For instance, _C:\Program Files\Java\jdkx.x.x_xx_
  # Check the added JRE definition.

== Configure and edit eclipse.ini ==
  # Close Eclipse.
  # Go to the eclipse installation directory and open the file _eclipse.ini_.
  # Add *two lines* above the _-vmargs_ line:
{{{
-vm
C:/Program Files/Java/jdkx.x.x_xx/bin/javaw
}}}

== Installing m2eclipse plug-in ==

  # Open Eclipse.
  # Go to _Help -> Install New Software..._ and add a new repository.
  # The repository location must be _http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/sites/m2e/_
  # Install _Maven Integration for Eclipse_.

== Add a new Maven2 repository ==

In this step we will configure Maven2 repositories through Eclipse.
  # Open Eclipse and go to _Window -> Show View -> Other..._.
  # Look for _Maven -> Maven repositories_. Here you can check your local, global, project and custom repositories.
  # To add a new *Project repository* open _pom.xml_ of target project and click _Show advanced tabs_ (placed at the top-right corner).
  # Open _Repositories_ tab and create a new repository with http://download.java.net/maven/2 as URL.
  # Finally, click on _Refresh_ button (two yellow arrows placed near the _Show advanced tabs_ button) and wait until the index/update operation finishes (this could take a while).

(Source: http://www.sonatype.com/books/m2eclipse-book/reference/eclipse-sect-repo-view.html)